Create pod eviction concept topic (#27739)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/glossary/kubelet-eviction.md

---

> title: Node-level eviction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Node-initiated eviction
```
?

Reviewer 2: I think I prefer to highlight the reason, rather than what executes it. So my recommendation is Node-pressure eviction. Although I prefer Node-initiated than Node-level.

id: kubelet-eviction
date: 2021-04-27

> full_link: /docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-eviction/

Reviewer: Maybe add a fragment identifier to the end of this URL?

short_description: >

>   Out-of-resource eviction is the process by which the kubelet proactively fails
>   pods to reclaim resources for nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The process by which the kubelet proactively fails pods in order to reclaim resources.
```

aka: kubelet eviction
tags:
- operation
- fundamental
---
Node-level eviction is the process by which the kubelet proactively fails
pods to reclaim resources on nodes.

<!--more-->

> The kubelet monitors resources like CPU, memory, disk space, and filesystem 
> inodes on your cluster's nodes. When one or more of these resources reach
> specific consumption levels, the kubelet can proactively fail one or more pods
> on the node to reclaim resources and prevent starvation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet monitors resources like CPU, memory, disk space, and filesystem 
inodes on your cluster's nodes. When one or more of these resources reach
specific consumption levels, the kubelet can proactively fail one or more pods
on the node to reclaim resources and prevent starvation. 

API-initiated eviction is not the same as
[node-initiated eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-eviction/#kubelet-eviction).
```

---
title: Node-pressure eviction

> id: kubelet-eviction

Author: Will do, this was me being lazy because kubelet eviction was easier to anchor to :P

---
title: Out-of-resource eviction
id: kubelet-eviction
date: 2021-04-27
full_link: /docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-eviction/#kubelet-eviction
short_description: >
  Out-of-resource eviction is the process by the kubelet proactively fails pods
  to reclaim resources.
aka: kubelet eviction
tags:
- operation
- fundamental
---
Out-of-resource eviction is the process by which pods are terminated to either
reclaim resources for nodes, or to schedule higher-priority pods on a cluster.

<!--more-->

There are two types of out-of-resource eviction: 

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Reviewer 2: Yes, have a separate entry for preemption.

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Author: We already have a separate entry for preemption. I wonder if we should have link to that entry from the kubelet eviction entry, something like "To learn about cluster-level eviction, see preemption." Thoughts?

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Reviewer 2: Let's figure something out first:
Do we want to consider kubelet eviction and preemption both as types of "out-of-resource eviction"? If so, the title of this should have 3 entries: out-of-resource eviction, node eviction (or kubelet eviction) and cluster eviction (or preemption). The first references the other 2.

If not, we just have 2 entries: node eviction and cluster eviction.

@sftim what is your take?

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Author: Are we married to calling it "out-of-resource eviction"? If this was called kubelet eviction, cluster-level called preemption, and the Eviction object one called graceful eviction, would that make it cleaner?

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Author: > Let's figure something out first:
> Do we want to consider kubelet eviction and preemption both as types of "out-of-resource eviction"? If so, the glossary should have 3 entries: out-of-resource eviction, node eviction (or kubelet eviction) and cluster eviction (or preemption). The first references the other 2.
> 
> If not, we just have 2 entries: node eviction and cluster eviction.

I guess since preemption isn't really "out-of-resource" in the same way that node eviction is (at least the way I, a relative newbie, understand it), I'm in favour of just having them as node eviction and cluster eviction. I can do that in this PR and then if we decide we do want them grouped, we can just add that in a future PR.

> 1. Cluster-level preemption: the scheduler evicts pods from nodes in a cluster

Author: Also - node-level eviction (so that there's nothing to suggest that entire nodes are getting booped)?
